Now the best way to learn is to actually see code in action so enough theory lets actually code our
own class.
I'm going to just delete everything and start from scratch.
And let's say that we're working for a gaming company and this gaming company has well this wizard game
that they want to create almost like Harry Potter.
Now how can we think about it an object oriented programming.
Well the first thing that we're going to need is we're going to have to have players right.
Each player has a character that they need to play.
So let's create a class here and call it player
again.
Notice the naming convention because it's a class another rule is that usually you want it to be singular
not plural so you can't say player characters because I mean it's a blueprint from this blueprint.
We're going to create many characters but those are gonna be objects.
So player character single in singular.
Now in here I'm going to do a few things and I'm going to warn you this is going to look confusing at
first but bear with me.
I will explain it.
We're going to define a underscore underscore in it underscore underscore.
Now in here we're going to say self and then give it a name the name of the character.
From here we're going to do call in once again and simply say self dots name equals to name oh boy what
just happened here.
Again I'm going to hold off explaining what this does and just write a few more lines of code so that
it makes a little bit more sense.
I'm going to write a nother method in here and I'm going to define let's say a run method that each
player can run in in here I'm going to once again have this weird self word and then simply inside of
here say print.
All right.
So I've just created this class.
It's still kind of confusing we don't really know what this in it is what the self is and this whole
new look but let's ignore that for a second and simply say player one is going to equal player character
and instantiate that player so that we can print player and see what's up with this player if I click
Run.
All right I get an error.
It's a type error.
It says in it missing one required positional argument.
Name.
All right.
Let's take a break here and see what is happening here.
You see this in it method is a special method.
You see the two underlines here.
This is called a Dunder method or a magic method.
And we're going to have a video specifically about this.
But when we're building a class you usually see this at the top and this is what's often called a constructor
method or in init method and this is automatically called anytime we instantiate remember instantiate
means is we're calling the class to create an object.
So when I do this it's going to automatically run whatever is in this code block so when I run this
you see that I'm getting the error on line 9 right here on line 9.
And when I tried to instantiate the player character it runs in it.
And then it tries to do self-doubt.
Name equals to name.
But the problem is that I'm not giving it to an argument name and that is because when we call in it
we accept whatever is after self as the parameter name.
So we need to give it a name of this character.
So let's say the name is Cindy.
If I click Run here all right it looks like I have a player character.
And as a matter of fact it even shows me that it's an object at this memory location.
So on our computers this is where the player character player 1 is located.
Now very cool but what is this self keyword and what is this code online for.
This is a way for us to define well self self refers to the player character.
It's saying hey this is going to refer to this player character that we're going to create.
Player 1 and I want self dot name to equal whatever the parameter name is so that if I do player dot
name here and I click Run I get Cindy.
And why is it Cindy.
Well because I gave it the parameter player character and when I instantiate it I passed the name parameter
the default parameter is self.
When I do in it and in classes you see here that the default always the first parameter when we're defining
a method is self and now I give name to self dot name.
What if I remove this here and I click Run you see that it says object has no attribute name because
in order for me to say hey I want player to have a name I need to say self dot because self refers to
Player 1.
So if you remember when we had a list we had to do dot and then we would say append.
Well somebody wrote this append code and in the append code it's going to say self.
Dot let's say add to the list and self refers to whatever's to the left of the dot.
So this way it allows us to have a reference to something that hasn't been created yet.
In this case Player 1 and let them know that hate when it's created when we instantiate then I want
you to make sure that player 1 has this name attribute so that if I create a another player and a player
Tom is going to be player to if I print player to Don name and I click Run I have two different players
with two different names I was able to use the same piece of code but have different values because
the self every time I instantiate this refers to first time player 1 then first second time player 2
now self is one of those things that gets really really tricky to understand and you might need to watch
this video a couple times but the key here should be evident to you that is I'm able to write code only
once remember our principal drive do not repeat yourself and I'm able to make a dynamic by saying this
data that we're going to create for the object is going to be dynamic and it's going to change based
on what we give it so that I can create different players with different attributes but still use the
same code.
Now I can have multiple things here.
I can have age for example.
And once again I can say self-taught age equals age.
And then Cindy will have to pass let's say 44 and Thomas 21 so that here once again if I do age
they'll have different attributes.
So remember these are attributes or properties that these objects have and you can access them by doing
the dot notation and then accessing the property itself.
You see that I don't have any brackets here because it's not a method.
It's not taking action it's simply saying Hey I want to access this attribute.
If I do dot here my editor will actually tell me and we'll have the symbol for hey you have access to
the attribute age and name.
And as a matter of fact I also have access to run the method so that if I click Run well remember a
run is a method.
So I get this bound method but it's not printing anything it's not taking the action.
So we have to once again add the brackets hit run and look at that.
I'm able to do run then I get none.
Then twenty one.
Why do we get this not because remember this is a function that doesn't return anything when a function
doesn't return anything.
What do we get we get not so maybe I can just say return done if I click Run.
There you go.
We have run none.
Twenty one.
Now one last thing before I end this video.
The interesting thing here is if I do Player 1 and then player 2 and I print this and I click run you'll
see that I get the player character but the object each of these objects Player 1 and Player 2 are at
different memory location so I'm able to use one piece of code one blueprint to create multiple players.
But these players are not the same.
They're created from the same blueprint but they live in different places in memory.
And that makes sense right.
We don't want Tom and Cindy to be the same player.
They're two different players.
So this way we're able to keep things safe and anything I add to player two for example let's say Player
2 can now attack and attack will just be a property that will be 50.
Now if I do dot attack here you see that player too has attack.
But if I do player one that attack I get an error object has no attribute attack.
I hope you're starting to see the power of classes although it may be difficult to understand at first
the power becomes evident when we are able to create this blueprint that we can now use over and over
and over to create our own objects let's explore more in the next video.